# What is Human Development?
Selim Jahan, Director of UNDP’s Human Development Report Office

#The Best Stats You’ve Never Seen
Hans Rosling, Gapminder

Selim Jahan iterates in his podcast that human development is much more than the economic factor of growth. Human development, in general, is about the process of enlarging human choices. These choices stem farther than just economic, as choices can also be political or cultural. Overall, human development is development of the people, for the people, and by the people. Rather than just being interested in the development of human capital, people must ensure that benefits are translated for the people, and to acknowledge that humans are active participants in the process. For example, Jahan speaks about the Human Development Index, HDI, which includes breadth measures and focus measures. There are breadth measures which touch on mortality rate, birth rate, GDP, etc. And there are also focus measures which encompass life spans, knowledge,and standards of living. These focus measures are some of the targetted issues that Jahan examples as requiring focus throughout the world. Jahan emphasizes that people should be rethinking the term "work" for human development. Work should include artistic and creative work as well as labor and jobs. This is important because these types of works contribute to human well-being, social cohesion, and interconnectedness.

Hans Rosling gave many examples about how wealth correlates strongly with health. He also explains how as wealth increases overtime, child survival rate increases as well, using data from several countries such as China, Japan, and the United states. This suggests that there is a strong linearity between child survival rate and money. However, it is important to be careful when using averages to describe development as differences in GDP per capita and child survival rates can be extremely drastic between neighboring countries, or even within one state or region. Rosling expresses the importances of improving the world through highly contextualized plans, more detailed than a regional level.






